OSDOCS#14609: Update the z-stream RNs for 4.16.40 (#93246)
openshift/openshift-docs: release_notes/ocp-4-16-release-notes.adoc

For any {product-title} release, always review the instructions on xref:../updating/updating_a_cluster/updating-cluster-web-console.adoc#updating-cluster-web-console[updating your cluster] properly.
====

//4.16.40
[id="ocp-4-16-40_{context}"]
=== RHSA-2025:4008 - {product-title} {product-version}.40 bug fix and security update

Issued: 15 May 2025

{product-title} release {product-version}.40 is now available. The list of bug fixes that are included in the update is documented in the link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2025:4008[RHSA-2025:4008] advisory. The RPM packages that are included in the update are provided by the link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHBA-2025:4010[RHBA-2025:4010] advisory.

You can view the container images in this release by running the following command:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc adm release info 4.16.40 --pullspecs
----

[id="ocp-4-16-40-known-issues_{context}"]
==== Known issues

>  * There is a known issue where the grandmaster clock (T-GM) transitions to the `Locked` state too soon. This happens before the Digital Phase-Locked Loop (DPLL) completes its change to the `Locked-HO-Acquired` state, and after the Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS) time source is restored. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-49826[*OCPBUGS-49826*]) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * The grandmaster clock (T-GM) transitions to the `Locked` state too soon. This is a known issue that happens before the Digital Phase-Locked Loop (DPLL) completes its change to the `Locked-HO-Acquired` state, and after the Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS) time source is restored. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-49826[*OCPBUGS-49826*]) 
```

Up to you!!

[id="ocp-4-16-40-bug-fixes_{context}"]
==== Bug fixes

* Previously, if you had permission to view nodes but not Certificate Signing Requests (CSR), you could not access the *Nodes list* page. With this release, permissions to view CSRs are no longer required to access the *Nodes list* page. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-55378[*OCPBUGS-55378*])

* Previously, for an ingress resource with an `IngressWithoutClassName` alert, the Ingress Controller did not delete the alert when the resource was deleted. The alert continued to open on the {product-title} web console. With this release, the Ingress Controller resets the `openshift_ingress_to_route_controller_ingress_without_class_name` metric to `0` before the controller deletes the ingress resource. The alert is deleted and no longer opens on the web console. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-55201[*OCPBUGS-55201*])

> * Previously, a race condition between `Go` routines caused the Cluster Version Operator (CVO) to behave inconsistently after the CVO started. With this release, the 'Go' routines synchronization is improved and the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-55156[*OCPBUGS-55156*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, a race condition between `Go` routines caused the Cluster Version Operator (CVO) to behave inconsistently after the CVO started. With this release, the `Go` routines synchronization is improved and the issue is resolved. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-55156[*OCPBUGS-55156*])
```

* Previously, {azure-first} network interfaces were created in a `provisioning failed` state, causing potential resource allocation issues. With this release, there is enhanced reliability in {azure-short} network interface controller (NIC) provisioning by adding code to verify and retry the network interface provisioning status by using the {azure-short} software development kit (SDK). (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-54990[*OCPBUGS-54990*])

* Previously, if a scrape failed, Prometheus incorrectly considered the samples from the next scrape as duplicates and dropped them. This issue affected only the scrape immediately following a failure, while later scrapes were processed correctly. With this release, the scrape following a failure is correctly handled, ensuring that no valid samples are mistakenly dropped. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-54942[*OCPBUGS-54942*])

> * Previously, during {product-title} software-defined networking (SDN) to `OVNKubernetes` migration with NMState managing `br-ex`, the `mtu-migration`` service that was active before `wait-for-primary-ip` caused a maximum transmission unit (MTU) migration failure. This action resulted in network connectivity issues for the user after migration to {product-version} 4.16. With this release, the services in NMState configurations are reordered, placing 'mtu-migration' after `wait-for-primary-ip`. This arrangement improves stability during migration, and prevents a `mtu-migration` service failure after the first reboot. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-54831[*OCPBUGS-54831*])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, during {product-title} software-defined networking (SDN) to `OVNKubernetes` migration with NMState managing `br-ex`, the `mtu-migration` service that was active before `wait-for-primary-ip` caused a maximum transmission unit (MTU) migration failure. This action resulted in network connectivity issues for the user after migration to {product-version} 4.16. With this release, the services in NMState configurations are reordered, placing `mtu-migration` after `wait-for-primary-ip`. This arrangement improves stability during migration, and prevents a `mtu-migration` service failure after the first reboot. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-54831[*OCPBUGS-54831*])
```

- Tiny back tick nits

> * Previously, containers that used the SELinux `container_logreader_t` domain to view container logs on a host at `/var/log` could not access logs in the `/var/log/containers` subdirectory. This issue occurred because of a missing symbolic link. With this release, a symbolic link is created for `/var/log/containers` and containers can access the logs in `/var/log/containers`. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-54818[OCPBUGS-54818])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, containers that used the SELinux `container_logreader_t` domain to view container logs in `/var/log` could not access logs in the `/var/log/containers` subdirectory. This issue occurred because of a missing symbolic link. With this release, a symbolic link is created for `/var/log/containers` and containers can access the logs in `/var/log/containers`. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-54818[OCPBUGS-54818])
```

> * Previously, a bug was encountered during limited live migration, that was caused by an incomplete container network interface (CNI) redeployment. This issue led to potential network connectivity problems during rollback to {product-title} software-defined networking (SDN) for users. With this release, a bug fix is made, adding an annotation for the node's primary IP address to handle non-cloud platforms during egress IP address rollback. The fix ensures a smooth rollback to {product-title} SDN, resolving stuck issues that occur during limited live migration, and improving network connectivity. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-53317[OCPBUGS-53317])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, an incomplete container network interface (CNI) redeployment caused an issue during limited live migration. This issue led to potential network connectivity problems during rollback to {product-title} software-defined networking (SDN) for users. With this release, a bug fix adds an annotation for the primary IP address of a node to handle non-cloud platforms during egress IP address rollback. The fix ensures a smooth rollback to {product-title} SDN, resolving stuck issues that occur during limited live migration, and improving network connectivity. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-53317[OCPBUGS-53317])
```

https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=grammar-possessives
> Do not use possessive ’s with inanimate objects.

* Previously, a specific commit caused MAC binding flows to reach the configured maximum age and were removed in {product-title} {product-version} 4.14.48. This action caused data plane traffic interruptions when the OVN Controller was slow to update address sets. With this release, the issue in the OVN MAC binding refresh on {azure-first} is corrected. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-53151[OCPBUGS-53151])

> *  Previously, a User Datagram Protocol (UDP) packet that was larger than the maximum transmission unit (MTU) value that was set for the cluster could not be sent to the packet endpoint by using a service. With this release, the pod IP address is used instead of the service IP address regardless of the packet size, and the UDP packet is sent to the endpoint. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-50581[OCPBUGS-50581])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, a User Datagram Protocol (UDP) packet that was larger than the maximum transmission unit (MTU) value that was set for the cluster could not be sent to the packet endpoint by using a service. With this release, the pod IP address is used instead of the service IP address regardless of the packet size, and the UDP packet is sent to the endpoint. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-50581[OCPBUGS-50581])
```

- nit: extra space

> * Previously, a bug in the internal publishing strategy led to missing ports for private clusters, making them inaccessible. With this release, a fix is added to  the necessary ports for private clusters, enhancing deployment success and ensuring seamless access to private clusters. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-35040[OCPBUGS-35040])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Previously, a bug in the internal publishing strategy led to missing ports for private clusters, making them inaccessible. With this release, a fix is added to the necessary ports for private clusters, enhancing deployment success and ensuring seamless access to private clusters. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-35040[OCPBUGS-35040])
```
